Configuration
=============
Bandit is designed to be configurable and cover a wide range of needs, it may
be used as either a local developer utility or as part of a full CI/CD
pipeline. To provide for these various usage scenarios bandit can be configured
via a `YAML <http://yaml.org/>`_ file. This file is completely optional and in
many cases not needed, it may be specified on the command line by using `-c`.

A bandit configuration file may choose the specific test plugins to run and
override the default configurations of those tests. An example config might
look like the following:

.. code-block:: yaml

  ### profile may optionally select or skip tests

  # (optional) list included tests here:
  tests: ['B201', 'B301']

  # (optional) list skipped tests here:
  skips: ['B101', 'B601']

  ### override settings - used to set settings for plugins to non-default values

  any_other_function_with_shell_equals_true:
    no_shell: [os.execl, os.execle, os.execlp, os.execlpe, os.execv, os.execve,
      os.execvp, os.execvpe, os.spawnl, os.spawnle, os.spawnlp, os.spawnlpe,
      os.spawnv, os.spawnve, os.spawnvp, os.spawnvpe, os.startfile]
    shell: [os.system, os.popen, os.popen2, os.popen3, os.popen4,
      popen2.popen2, popen2.popen3, popen2.popen4, popen2.Popen3,
      popen2.Popen4, commands.getoutput,  commands.getstatusoutput]
    subprocess: [subprocess.Popen, subprocess.call, subprocess.check_call,
      subprocess.check_output]

If you require several sets of tests for specific tasks, then you should create
several config files and pick from them using `-c`. If you only wish to control
the specific tests that are to be run (and not their parameters) then using
`-s` or `-t` on the command line may be more appropriate.

Skipping Tests
--------------
The bandit config may contain optional lists of test IDs to either include
(`tests`) or exclude (`skips`). These lists are equivalent to using `-t` and
`-s` on the command line. If only `tests` is given then bandit will include
only those tests, effectively excluding all other tests. If only `skips`
is given then bandit will include all tests not in the skips list. If both are
given then bandit will include only tests in `tests` and then remove `skips`
from that set. It is an error to include the same test ID in both `tests` and
`skips`.

Note that command line options `-t`/`-s` can still be used in conjunction with
`tests` and `skips` given in a config. The result is to concatenate `-t` with
`tests` and likewise for `-s` and `skips` before working out the tests to run.

Generating a Config
-------------------
Bandit ships the tool `bandit-config-generator` designed to take the leg work
out of configuration. This tool can generate a configuration file
automatically. The generated configuration will include default config blocks
for all detected test and blacklist plugins. This data can then be deleted or
edited as needed to produce a minimal config as desired. The config generator
supports `-t` and `-s` command line options to specify a list of test IDs that
should be included or excluded respectively. If no options are given then the
generated config will not include `tests` or `skips` sections (but will provide
a complete list of all test IDs for reference when editing).

Configuring Test Plugins
------------------------
Bandit's configuration file is written in `YAML <http://yaml.org/>`_ and options
for each plugin test are provided under a section named to match the test
method. For example, given a test plugin called 'try_except_pass' its
configuration section might look like the following:

.. code-block:: yaml

    try_except_pass:
      check_typed_exception: True

The specific content of the configuration block is determined by the plugin
test itself. See the `plugin test list <plugins/index.html>`_ for complete
information on configuring each one.
